feat: add `blas/ext/base/ndarray/saxpby` (#12694)
stdlib-js/stdlib: lib/node_modules/@stdlib/blas/ext/base/ndarray/saxpby/README.md

<!--

@license Apache-2.0

Copyright (c) 2026 The Stdlib Authors.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

-->

# saxpby

> > Multiply a one-dimensional single-precision floating-point ndarray `x` by a constant and add the result to a one-dimensional single-precision floating-point ndarray `y` multiplied by a constant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Multiply a one-dimensional single-precision floating-point ndarray by a scalar constant and add the result to a second one-dimensional single-precision floating-point ndarray multiplied by a scalar constant.
```

<section class="intro">

This BLAS extension implements the operation

<!-- <equation class="equation" label="eq:axpby" align="center" raw="\mathbf{y} = \alpha \mathbf{x} + \beta \mathbf{y}" alt="Equation for axpby operation."> -->

```math
\mathbf{y} = \alpha \mathbf{x} + \beta \mathbf{y}
```

<!-- </equation> -->

</section>

<!-- /.intro -->

<section class="usage">

## Usage

```javascript
var saxpby = require( '@stdlib/blas/ext/base/ndarray/saxpby' );
```

#### saxpby( arrays )

> Multiplies a one-dimensional single-precision floating-point ndarray `x` by a constant and adds the result to a one-dimensional single-precision floating-point ndarray `y` multiplied by a constant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multiplies a one-dimensional single-precision floating-point ndarray by a scalar constant and adds the result to a second one-dimensional single-precision floating-point ndarray multiplied by a scalar constant.
```

```javascript
var Float32Vector = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/vector/float32' );
var scalar2ndarray = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/from-scalar' );

var x = new Float32Vector( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0 ] );
var y = new Float32Vector( [ 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0 ] );

var alpha = scalar2ndarray( 5.0, {
    'dtype': 'float32'
});

var beta = scalar2ndarray( 2.0, {
    'dtype': 'float32'
});

saxpby( [ x, y, alpha, beta ] );
// y => <ndarray>[ 9.0, 16.0, 23.0, 30.0, 37.0 ]
```

The function has the following parameters:

-   **arrays**: array-like object containing the following ndarrays:

    -   a one-dimensional input ndarray.
    -   a one-dimensional output ndarray.
    -   a zero-dimensional ndarray containing the constant to multiply `x`.

>     -   a zero-dimensional ndarray containing the constant to multiply `y`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    -   a zero-dimensional ndarray containing the constant to multiply the input ndarray.
    -   a zero-dimensional ndarray containing the constant to multiply the output ndarray.
```

>     -   a zero-dimensional ndarray containing the constant to multiply the output ndarray.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    -   a zero-dimensional ndarray containing the constant by which to multiply the input ndarray.
    -   a zero-dimensional ndarray containing the constant by which to multiply the output ndarray.
```

</section>

<!-- /.usage -->

<section class="notes">

## Notes

> -   The second input ndarray is modified **in-place** (i.e., the ndarray is **mutated**).

Author: ```suggestion
-   The output ndarray is modified **in-place** (i.e., the output ndarray is **mutated**).
```

</section>

<!-- /.notes -->

<section class="examples">

## Examples

<!-- eslint no-undef: "error" -->

```javascript
var discreteUniform = require( '@stdlib/random/discrete-uniform' );
var scalar2ndarray = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/from-scalar' );
var ndarray2array = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/to-array' );

> var ndarraylike2scalar = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/base/ndarraylike2scalar' );

Reviewer: ```suggestion
var ndarraylike2scalar = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/ndarraylike2scalar' );
```
